in this video let us learn how to insert a
new Node at the beginning of circular linked list
So in the previous video we have learnt about
circular linked list unlike Normal Linked List circular linked List
have a link from last Node to first Node in
a cyclic
Way here we are discussing how to insert a
Node in a circular linked list at the beginning
So if we have this linked list with elements 10
20 and 30 and if we insert 100 it will
be inserted at the beginning and we will get the
new circular linked list like this
Now let us see how to insert a new Node
in a circular linked list At the beginning here we will
have two cases
The first case is when the circular linked list
is empty
Then the new Node inserted will be the only Node
and it becomes the head Node and it will point
to itself the second cases when the circular linked list
has at least one Node then we need to find
the last Node by traversing the list and then insert
new Node after the last Node and it should point
to current head and then finally make the new Node
the head
Now let us see the Java programme to insert a
new Node at the beginning of his circular linked list
So this is the function which will add the new
Node at the beginning and we will pass the value
to be added to this function
Add first and it will create a new Node with
that value and inserted at the beginning
So we have public void
Add first of int val let us see how it works
So here first we have an empty circular linked
list
So we have head equal to Null now let us insert
a new Node with value 10
So we will call the function at first by passing the
value 10 and let us see what happens
So Val equal to ten here
So first we need to create the new Node using
new
So we have Node new Node equal to new Node
so it will be created in the heap and it's
reference will be returned
So we have a new Node created at address 1000
Now we need to add the data to the data
part so write
New Node dot data equal to Val
So 10 is added to the data part
Now if the circular linked list is empty the new
Node will be the only Node
And it should become head
So we need to check it
So we have if head equal to null
And we got head equal to null
So that means the linked list is currently empty
So this new Node will be the only Node in
this list
Hence it should be the head
And since its the circular linked list
It should point itself
Right So we need to set new node dot next
equal to new Node itself
And now we need to make it the head so
write head equal to new Node
So head points to this Node
So as we can see the thing is it should
be cyclic
So the last Node should point to first Node
So here there is only one Node so it should
point to itself
So now we have the circular linked list with one
Node now let us insert another Node with value 20 So
first create the new Node using new
So the new Node is created at address 2000 like
this
Now we need to add the value 20 to the data
part So write new node dot data equal to val so
twenties added here Now we need to Check if the
circular linked list is empty and if it's empty the
head will be equal to null
But here it is not so if will fail and
the control goes to else part
So here we need to find the last Node by
traversing the list and then insert the new Node after
the last Node
So in normal linked list the last Node will be
pointing to null but in circular linked list
The last Node will be pointing the head of the
list so we need to create a temporary variable last
and initialised it to head
So write Node last equal to temp and use a
while loop to traverse the list till last next equal
to head And when the loop terminates last will point
to the last Node here Last equal to 1000 now so
Check if last next not equal to head
But it is so this condition will fail and it
will terminate now itself So we got the last Node
pointed by last
And now we have to insert the new Node after
the last Node
So right last dot next equal to new Node
Now it should point to the current head
So right New Node
Dot next equal to head and finally make the new
Node head
So write head equal to new
Node
So now we have the circular linked list with two
Nodes and the Node at 2000 being the head
Now let us insert another Node with value 30
So first create the new Node now at the value
30 at the data part
Now Check
If this list is empty but it is not so
go to the else part and find the last Node
by traversing the list
And we have last pointing to head initially and using
a while Look traverse the list till last
Next equal to head here temp equal to 2000 now
and Check if last next not equal to head
It is equal 1000 and not equal to head
So move to the next Node
So last equal to 1000
now check if last dot next not equal to
head but it is equal to head
So this condition fails and Loop will terminate
So we got the last Node Now
Now we have to insert the new Node after the
last Node
So we have last dot next equal to new Node
And next it should point to current head
So write new Node dot next equal to head
And finally we need to make the new Node the
head of the list
So right head equal to new Node
So that is how we can insert Nodes at the
beginning of circular linked list
Now let us discuss about the time complexity
Though we are inserting the Node at the beginning we
have to traverse the whole list to find the last
Node
Then only we can insert it so the time complexity
is order of n